feat!: stabilize experimental.headingIdCompat (#14494)
withastro/astro: .changeset/good-camels-pull.md

In Astro 5.5, the `experimental.headingIdCompat` flag was introduced to allow you to make the IDs generated by Astro for Markdown headings compatible with common platforms like GitHub and npm, using the popular [`github-slugger`](https://github.com/Flet/github-slugger) package.

Astro 6.0 removes this experimental flag and makes this the new default behavior in Astro: trailing hyphens from the end of IDs for headings ending in special characters are no longer removed.

#### What should I do?

If you have manual links to headings, you may need to update the anchor link value with a new trailing hyphen. For example, the following Markdown heading:

```md
## `<Picture />`
```

will now generate the following HTML with a trailing hyphen in the heading `id`:

```html
<h2 id="picture-"><code>&lt;Picture /&gt;</h2>
```

and must now be linked to as:

```markdown
See [the Picture component](/en/guides/images/#picture-) for more details.
```

> If you were previously using the experimental feature to enforce trailing hyphens, you must [remove this experimental flag from your configuration](#experimental-flags) as it no longer exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you were previously using the experimental feature to enforce trailing hyphens, you must remove this experimental flag from your configuration as it no longer exists.
```
Sadly, we can't rely on the docs upgrade guide trick here, and I guess probably have to show removing the flag?

If you were previously using the `rehypeHeadingIds` plugin directly to enforce compatibility, remove the `headingIdCompat` option as it no longer exists:

```js title="astro.config.mjs" del={8} ins={9}
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import { rehypeHeadingIds } from '@astrojs/markdown-remark';
import { otherPluginThatReliesOnHeadingIDs } from 'some/plugin/source';

export default defineConfig({
  markdown: {
    rehypePlugins: [
      [rehypeHeadingIds, { headingIdCompat: true }],
      [rehypeHeadingIds],
      otherPluginThatReliesOnHeadingIDs,
    ],
  },
});
```

> If you want to keep the old ID generation for backward compatibility reasons, you can create a custom rehype plugin that will generate headings IDs like Astro 5.x. This will allow you to continue to use your existing anchor links without adding trailing hyphens.

Reviewer 2: I’m not sure of our style, but in general maybe changesets could be more of a summary with a link out each time?

Currently we end up with overwhelming changelog and overwhelming upgrade guide. Maybe a changelog as quick overview with links and upgrade guide as the completist version would be a nicer experience for people?

```md
## `<Picture />`
```

will now generate the following HTML with a trailing hyphen in the heading `id`:

```html
<h2 id="picture-"><code>&lt;Picture /&gt;</h2>
```

and must now be linked to as:

```markdown
See [the Picture component](/en/guides/images/#picture-) for more details.
```

If you were previously using this experimental feature, you must remove this experimental flag from your configuration as it no longer exists:

```diff
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';

export default defineConfig({
  experimental: {
-    headingIdCompat: true,
  },
})
```

If you were previously using the `rehypeHeadingIds` plugin directly to enforce compatibility, remove the `headingIdCompat` option as it no longer exists:

```diff
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import { rehypeHeadingIds } from '@astrojs/markdown-remark';
import { otherPluginThatReliesOnHeadingIDs } from 'some/plugin/source';

export default defineConfig({
  markdown: {
    rehypePlugins: [
-     [rehypeHeadingIds, { headingIdCompat: true }],
+     [rehypeHeadingIds],
      otherPluginThatReliesOnHeadingIDs,
    ],
  },
});
```

> If you want to keep the old ID generation for backward compatibility reasons, you can [create a custom rehype plugin that will generate headings IDs like Astro 5.x](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/upgrade-to/v6/#changed-markdown-heading-id-generation) by following the instructions in the Astro 6 upgrade guide. This will allow you to continue to use your existing anchor links without adding trailing hyphens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have manual links to headings, you may need to update some anchor link values with a new trailing hyphen. 

If you were previously using this experimental feature, remove this experimental flag from your configuration.

If you were previously using the `rehypeHeadingIds` plugin directly to enforce compatibility, remove the `headingIdCompat` option as it no longer exists.

See the [Astro 6.0 upgrade guide](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/upgrade-to/v6/#changed-markdown-heading-id-generation) for upgrade examples, and instructions to create a custom rehype plulgin if you want to keep the old ID generation for backward compatibility reasons.
```
So, if we're going to be making these shorter and linking to the guide, is this short enough?

---
'@astrojs/markdoc': minor
'@astrojs/mdx': major
'@astrojs/markdown-remark': major
'astro': major
---

> TODO:

Reviewer 2: I guess this is waiting on feedback in https://github.com/withastro/docs/pull/12510 but we should be sure to update it before merging!
